Periodontium
Functions:
1.
Support and Protection:** The periodontium provides essential structural support for teeth, ensuring their stability within the jaw.
It protects the roots and surrounding structures from external forces and potential damage.
2.
Force Absorption:** During activities such as chewing, the periodontium absorbs and distributes the forces
exerted on the teeth, minimizing the impact on the dental structures and preventing injury.
Components:
1.
Cementum:** This calcified tissue covers the roots of the teeth, playing a crucial role in anchoring them within the jaw.
It helps to attach the periodontal ligament and aids in protecting the root surface.
2.
Alveolar Bone:** The alveolar bone is the part of the jaw that holds the tooth sockets.
It provides support for the teeth, ensuring they remain anchored in place.
It also plays a role in dental health, as the bone
can remodel in response to the forces exerted by the teeth.
3.
Periodontal Ligament (PDL):** This connective tissue surrounds the roots of the teeth and connects them to the alveolar bone.
The periodontal ligament not only provides stability and support but also contains
nerve endings that contribute to the sensory perception of pressure and pain.
Its role is vital in maintaining the health of the periodontium and the overall function of the teeth.